README.md, before:

[![Light Protocol](assets/logo.svg)](https://lightprotocol.com)

# Light Protocol

[![Discord](https://img.shields.io/discord/892771619687268383?label=discord&logo=discord)](https://discord.gg/WDAAaX6je2)
[![Workflow Status](https://github.com/Lightprotocol/light-protocol-onchain/workflows/programs-test/badge.svg)](https://github.com/Lightprotocol/light-poseidon/actions?query=workflow)

**The ZK Layer for Solana**

Light is a zkLayer enabling private program execution, purpose-built for Solana. 

Developers can use Light to build applications such as 

- fast private payments
- encrypted orderbooks
- public on-chain games with private state

## Development environment

There are three ways of setting up the development environment:

* [devenv.sh script](#devenv.sh) - the most recommended one, both for Linux and
  macOS. Works with Bash and zsh.
* [Development Containers](#development-containers) - recommended on Linux,
  unfortunately has performance problems on macOS.
* [Manual setup](#manual-setup) - not recommended, but may be useful if the
  methods above don't work for you.

### devenv.sh

The easiest way to setup the development environment is to use our scripts
and development environment.

First, install the dependencies (they are going to be installed in `.local`
directory inside your repository clone):

```shell
./scripts/install.sh
```

Then, optionally, you can activate the development environment:

```shell
. ./scripts/devenv.sh
```

(The scripts mentioned later, like `./scripts/build.sh` or `./scripts/test.sh`
are going to work even without activating the development environment with
`source devenv.sh`, they take care of setting the correct `PATH` variable.)

If you activated the development environment, you can manually run commands
like `yarn`, `cargo`, `solana`, `solana-test-validator`. They are going to
use the dependencies installed in `.local` directory, so even if you have
different global installations, they are not going to interfere.

### Development Containers

Light Protocol fully embraces [Development Containers](https://containers.dev/),
providing a ready-to-use
[Docker container image](https://github.com/Lightprotocol/dockerfiles/pkgs/container/devcontainer)
that comes pre-configured with all necessary dependencies for building and testing.

Support for Development Containers (either native or through a plugin) is
provided by the following IDEs and editors:

* [Visual Studio Code](https://code.visualstudio.com/docs/devcontainers/containers)
* [Neovim](https://github.com/esensar/nvim-dev-container)
* [Emacs](https://github.com/emacs-lsp/lsp-docker)

### Manual setup

If you still want to setup dependencies manually, these are the requirements:

* [Rust installed with Rustup](https://rustup.rs/), stable and nightly toolchains
* [NodeJS](https://nodejs.org/) [(16.16 LTS)](https://nodejs.org/en/blog/release/v16.16.0)
* [Anchor](https://www.anchor-lang.com/) [(0.26.0)](https://crates.io/crates/anchor-cli/0.26.0)

## Building

To build the project, use the following commands:

```bash
./scripts/build.sh
```


## Solana keypair

Before doing any development or running any tets, you need to generate a new
local keypair:

```bash
solana-keygen new -o ~/.config/solana/id.json
```

## Tests

### Global

```bash
./scripts/test.sh
```

### Rust tests

```bash
cd light-verifier-sdk/
cargo test
```

### SDK tests

```bash
cd light-zk.js/
yarn test
```

### Circuit tests

```bash
cd light-circuits
yarn test
```

### Anchor tests

Tests are located in `tests/` directory.

The default test is a functional test, setting up a test environment with a
Merkle tree and an spl token, conducting two shields and unshields.

Tests can be executed in bulk or one by one.

```bash
cd light-system-programs/
yarn test
yarn test-verifiers
yarn test-merkle-tree
```

Commit message:

relayer: added redis and queue

README.md, after:

[![Light Protocol](assets/logo.svg)](https://lightprotocol.com)

# Light Protocol

[![Discord](https://img.shields.io/discord/892771619687268383?label=discord&logo=discord)](https://discord.gg/WDAAaX6je2)
[![Workflow Status](https://github.com/Lightprotocol/light-protocol-onchain/workflows/programs-test/badge.svg)](https://github.com/Lightprotocol/light-poseidon/actions?query=workflow)

**The ZK Layer for Solana**

Light is a zkLayer enabling private program execution, purpose-built for Solana. 

Developers can use Light to build applications such as 

- fast private payments
- encrypted orderbooks
- public on-chain games with private state

## Development environment

There are three ways of setting up the development environment:

* [devenv.sh script](#devenv.sh) - the most recommended one, both for Linux and
  macOS. Works with Bash and zsh.
* [Development Containers](#development-containers) - recommended on Linux,
  unfortunately has performance problems on macOS.
* [Manual setup](#manual-setup) - not recommended, but may be useful if the
  methods above don't work for you.

### devenv.sh

The easiest way to setup the development environment is to use our scripts
and development environment.

First, install the dependencies, pick true to install redis, pick false to skip installing redis
(they are going to be installed in `.local` directory inside your repository clone):

```shell
./scripts/install.sh true
```

Then, optionally, you can activate the development environment:

```shell
. ./scripts/devenv.sh
```

(The scripts mentioned later, like `./scripts/build.sh` or `./scripts/test.sh`
are going to work even without activating the development environment with
`source devenv.sh`, they take care of setting the correct `PATH` variable.)

If you activated the development environment, you can manually run commands
like `yarn`, `cargo`, `solana`, `solana-test-validator`. They are going to
use the dependencies installed in `.local` directory, so even if you have
different global installations, they are not going to interfere.

### Development Containers

Light Protocol fully embraces [Development Containers](https://containers.dev/),
providing a ready-to-use
[Docker container image](https://github.com/Lightprotocol/dockerfiles/pkgs/container/devcontainer)
that comes pre-configured with all necessary dependencies for building and testing.

Support for Development Containers (either native or through a plugin) is
provided by the following IDEs and editors:

* [Visual Studio Code](https://code.visualstudio.com/docs/devcontainers/containers)
* [Neovim](https://github.com/esensar/nvim-dev-container)
* [Emacs](https://github.com/emacs-lsp/lsp-docker)

### Manual setup

If you still want to setup dependencies manually, these are the requirements:

* [Rust installed with Rustup](https://rustup.rs/), stable and nightly toolchains
* [NodeJS](https://nodejs.org/) [(16.16 LTS)](https://nodejs.org/en/blog/release/v16.16.0)
* [Anchor](https://www.anchor-lang.com/) [(0.26.0)](https://crates.io/crates/anchor-cli/0.26.0)

## Building

To build the project, use the following commands:

```bash
./scripts/build.sh
```


## Solana keypair

Before doing any development or running any tets, you need to generate a new
local keypair:

```bash
solana-keygen new -o ~/.config/solana/id.json
```

## Tests

### Global

```bash
./scripts/test.sh
```

### Rust tests

```bash
cd light-verifier-sdk/
cargo test
```

### SDK tests

```bash
cd light-zk.js/
yarn test
```

### Circuit tests

```bash
cd light-circuits
yarn test
```

### Anchor tests

Tests are located in `tests/` directory.

The default test is a functional test, setting up a test environment with a
Merkle tree and an spl token, conducting two shields and unshields.

Tests can be executed in bulk or one by one.

```bash
cd light-system-programs/
yarn test
yarn test-verifiers
yarn test-merkle-tree
```
