cli/README.md, before:

# Light CLI

## Installation

To use Light CLI, you need to have Node.js (version 12 or later) and npm (Node Package Manager) installed on your machine. Follow the steps below to install [Your CLI Name] globally:

1. Open your terminal or command prompt.
2. Run the following command:

   ```shell
   npm install -g @lightprotocol/cli
   ```

3. After the installation is complete, you can verify the installation by running:

   ```shell
   light --version
   ```

## Commands

- `help`: Display help information.
- `init`: Initialize a new PSP project.
- `build`: Build the PSP project.
- `test`: Run the PSP Project tests.
- `account`: Get the current account details
- `airdrop`: Perform a native Solana or SPL airdrop to a user.
- `balance`: Retrieve the balance, inbox balance, or utxos for the user.
- `config`: Update the configuration values.
- `history`: Retrieve transaction history for the user.
- `accept-utxos`: Merge multiple utxos into a single UTXO.
- `test-validator`: Perform setup tasks.
- `shield`: Shield tokens for a user.
  - `shield:sol`: Shield sol for a user.
  - `shield:spl`: Shield spl tokens for a user.
- `transfer`: Transfer tokens to a recipient.
- `unshield`: Unshield tokens for a user.
  - `unshield:sol`: Unshield sol for a user.
  - `unshield:spl`: Unshield spl tokens for a user.
- merkleTree:
  - `mt:authority`: Initialize, set, or get the Merkle Tree Authority.
  - `mt:configuration`: Update the configuration of the Merkle Tree NFTs, permissionless SPL tokens, and lock duration.
  - `mt:initialize`: Initialize the Merkle Tree.
  - `mt:pool`: Register a new pool type [default, spl, sol].
  - `mt:verifier`: Register a new verifier for a Merkle Tree.
- psp:
  - `psp:init`: Initialize, set, or get the Merkle Tree Authority
  - `psp:build`: Update the configuration of the Merkle Tree NFTs, permissionless SPL tokens, and lock duration.
  - `psp:test`: Initialize the Merkle Tree.
- `test-validator`:

## License

@lightprotocol/cli is released under the GNU General Public License v3.0. See the LICENSE file for more details.

## Contact

If you have any questions, suggestions, or feedback, please feel free to reach out to us at [hello@lightprotocol.com].

Commit message:

Update CLI README.md
- remove dead commands
- add usage section for overview
- add discord link

cli/README.md, after:

# Light CLI

## Installation

To use Light CLI, you need to have Node.js (version 12 or later) and npm (Node Package Manager) installed on your machine. Follow the steps below to install [Your CLI Name] globally:

1. Open your terminal or command prompt.
2. Run the following command:

   ```shell
   npm install -g @lightprotocol/cli
   ```

3. After the installation is complete, you can verify the installation by running:

   ```shell
   light --version
   ```
   
## Usage

The CLI lets you initialize a PSP scaffold project and customize, build, and test it. (```light psp:...``` subcommand)

It also provides utilities for local development, such as running a local Solana-test-validator with all necessary Light accounts and pre-loaded programs. (```light test-validator```).

You can also execute common user actions such as shielding and sending private transfers. (```light shield```, ```light transfer```, ```light unshield```).

For the full list of available commands, see below:


### Commands

- `help`: Display help information.
- `account`: Get the current account details
- `airdrop`: Perform a native Solana or SPL airdrop to a user.
- `balance`: Retrieve the balance, inbox balance, or utxos for the user.
- `config`: Update the configuration values.
- `history`: Retrieve transaction history for the user.
- `accept-utxos`: Merge multiple utxos into a single UTXO.
- `shield`: Shield tokens for a user.
  - `shield:sol`: Shield sol for a user.
  - `shield:spl`: Shield spl tokens for a user.
- `transfer`: Transfer tokens to a recipient.
- `unshield`: Unshield tokens for a user.
  - `unshield:sol`: Unshield sol for a user.
  - `unshield:spl`: Unshield spl tokens for a user.

- `test-validator`: starts a solana-test-validator and performs all setup tasks. Use in a separate terminal in stead of solana-test-validator

- merkleTree:
  - `mt:authority`: Initialize, set, or get the Merkle Tree Authority.
  - `mt:configuration`: Update the configuration of the Merkle Tree NFTs, permissionless SPL tokens, and lock duration.
  - `mt:initialize`: Initialize the Merkle Tree.
  - `mt:pool`: Register a new pool type [default, spl, sol].
  - `mt:verifier`: Register a new verifier for a Merkle Tree.

- psp:
  - `psp:init`: Initialize, set, or get the Merkle Tree Authority
  - `psp:build`: Update the configuration of the Merkle Tree NFTs, permissionless SPL tokens, and lock duration.
  - `psp:test`: Perform the PSP tests.


## License

@lightprotocol/cli is released under the GNU General Public License v3.0. See the LICENSE file for more details.

## Contact

If you have questions, suggestions, or feedback, join the developer community on Discord: https://discord.gg/J3KvDfZpyp or reach out at [hello@lightprotocol.com].
