js/compressed-token/README.md, before:

js client to interact with the compressed-token program

WIP.

### Requirements

reproduced on mac m2:

- node: v20.9.0
- rustup 1.26.0, rustc 1.73.0, cargo 1.73.0
- solana-cli 1.17.5

## Producing events for indexing

First, activate the devenv

`. ./scripts/devenv.sh`

If you're new, run

`./scripts/install.sh`

Run the monorepo build script
`./scripts/build.sh`

Go to stateless.js
`cd js/stateless.js`

and run
`pnpm run test-validator`

this starts a solana-test-validator + auto-initialized the env, programs, and accounts Light needs. Keep the validator running.

now open another terminal, enter the devenv + compressed-token,

`cd js/compressed-token`

now run:

`pnpm emit-event:create_mint`
`pnpm emit-event:mint_to`

This runs ./tests/e2e/emit-create_mint.test.ts and ./tests/e2e/emit-mint_to.test.ts which execute a mint and compressed mint_to against the test-validator. You'll be able to index the emitted events (output utxos) according to the event rust struct. Create mint doesn't create an output utxo, mint_to doesn't use input_utxos.

`pnpm emit-event:transfer-spl` is WIP. Will merge this onto an updated branch soonTM.

### Troubleshooting

If you're having trouble building the project or cli,

- Nuke git clean -xfd (careful)

- re-run install.sh etc

- you may want to manually build the programs (anchor build)
  or manually build the cli (`pnpm run build` in ./cli) before running
  `./cli/test_bin/run test-validator`

### Other side notes

1. This is unsafe. We don't verify ZKPs yet, nor do we validate tree roots.
2. this is also what allows us to make up input-utxos for emit-event:transfer
3. on-chain runs a sumcheck on the state transition (outputs, inputs).

Commit message:

feat: Make Merkle tree size defined at runtime (#486)
Allow the following parameters of Merkle trees to be defined at runtime:

* height
* changelog size
* roots size

They can be defined dynamically in the code, but only once and only before
convertion (from raw account bytes) or initialization!

This way, we allow to resize the Merkle tree accounts at our will and
we get away with necessity of using const generics to define the sizes.

The whole convertion operation is unsafe, ensuring that the account
size is correct is our responsibility.

rebase mc resolved

stateless.js prettierrc

fmt

try fix js

build programs and sdk  and cli in setup-and-build script for ci

solana

=

no ci for stateless.js. enable when somewhat stable

fix setupandbuild

reset actionyml

init ctoken

fixed build.sh. IDLs no autopulled into client libs from target

rm idl f anchortoml

rm unnecessary import in sdk.rs

add spltoken,

add cpiAuthorityPda getter, add transfer.ts ix builder, sync tlvElements struct

add test case: spl transfer

create_mint and mint_to scripts

readme upd

jq to installsh

devenv jq works

rebased

upd gitignore

rm print, upd readme

rebuilt idls

less prints push idl sh

js/compressed-token/README.md, after:

js client to interact with the compressed-token program

WIP.

### Requirements

reproduced on mac m2:

- node: v20.9.0
- rustup 1.26.0, rustc 1.73.0, cargo 1.73.0
- solana-cli 1.17.5

## Producing events for indexing

First, activate the devenv

`. ./scripts/devenv.sh`

If you're new, run

`./scripts/install.sh`

Run the monorepo build script
`./scripts/build.sh`

Go to stateless.js
`cd js/stateless.js`

and run
`pnpm run test-validator`

this starts a solana-test-validator + auto-initialized the env, programs, and accounts Light needs.
It should print: "Executing command solana-test-validator...
Waiting for fees to stabilize 1..."
Keep the validator running.

Now open another terminal, activate the devenv again + move to js/compressed-token.

now run:

`pnpm emit-event:create_mint`
`pnpm emit-event:mint_to`

This runs ./tests/e2e/emit-create_mint.test.ts and ./tests/e2e/emit-mint_to.test.ts which execute a mint and compressed mint_to against the test-validator. You'll be able to index the emitted events (output utxos) according to the event rust struct. Create mint doesn't create an output utxo, mint_to doesn't use input_utxos.

`pnpm emit-event:transfer-spl` is WIP. Will merge this onto an updated branch soonTM.

### Troubleshooting

If you're having trouble building the project or cli,

- Nuke git clean -xfd (careful)

- re-run install.sh etc

- you may want to manually build the programs (anchor build)
  or manually build the cli (`pnpm run build` in ./cli) before running
  `./cli/test_bin/run test-validator`

### Other side notes

1. This is unsafe. We don't verify ZKPs yet, nor do we validate tree roots.
2. this is also what allows us to make up input-utxos for emit-event:transfer
3. on-chain runs a sumcheck on the state transition (outputs, inputs).
